# AutofluorescenceRemoval
This repository is for referring autofluorescence removal pipelines

Multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC) is often hindered by autofluorescence (AF) and other artifacts, despite various proposed methods to eliminate them, which have limitations and can be time-consuming. To address this issue, we investigated an enhanced open-source method using digital processing to eliminate AF. We first used a fluorescence filter set of ET-BV480 for fluorescence channels to capture AF. Next, we established image processing pipelines using CellProfiler software and successfully obtained AF-free images by subtracting AF signals from the total fluorescence signals of biomarker images. The non-specific fluorescent signals from tissue folding and edge effects were also automatically removed by the processing pipelines. Finally, we employed a series of pipelines to automate spatial image quantification for three biomarkers and their colocalization. We applied this method to a large cohort to verify its reliability and effectiveness. To ensure the accuracy of digital image quantification, we accounted for batch-to-batch staining variations, and the results indicated that the semi-quantification closely aligns with digital image analysis for the epithelium, stroma, and total sections. We compared the quantification results between AF-free and AF-present images and found significant differences between them. Additionally, we used the pipeline to identify colocalization between different biomarkers within the same pathway and found significant correlations. By providing a robust and automated solution for AF elimination, this method enhances the precision of mIHC analysis and facilitates large-scale studies, ultimately contributing to a deeper understanding of disease mechanisms and the development of targeted therapies.
